---
layout: post
title: A fix for double scroll boxes for code
catagories: [jekyll now, free code]
---
## I forked this repo from the upstream
But I will not be offering any pull requests to the upstream, and if you fork my repo
I will likely ignore any pull requests you sent me.

## Once you fork this repo you own your blog
The original upstream created a repo that was a model of how to use jekyll to create blog website
on github. This was a good idea, but many github uses cloned the repo found a problem and requested
that the upstream debug or review their code. This became old very quickly.
I take the position of thanking the upstream for the contribution but it is up to me to improve the code
for myself rather than burden the upstream with endless pull requests and feature requests.

## What about contributing back?
That is the point of this post. I am going the desribe how I fixed a problem in the upstream code.
You can copy or ignore my suggestions. I will happily ignore your pull requests to this site.

## The double scroll box problam

Notice in the code generated by jekyll that the div just outside of the pre both have highlight classes

```html
<article class="post">
  <h1>A TITLE HERE</h1>
     <div class="entry">
        <div class="language-cl highlighter-rouge">
           <div class="highlight">
              <pre class="highlight">
	         <code>
                    THIS IS WHERE THE CODE GOES
                 </code>
              </pre>
	   </div>

        </div>
  </div>
  <div class="date">
    THE DATE IS HERE
  </div>
</article>
```

Next notice the original _sass/_highlights.scss start with

```css
.highlight {
  background-color: #efefef;
  padding: 7px 7px 7px 10px;
  border: 1px solid #ddd;
  -moz-box-shadow: 3px 3px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
  -webkit-box-shadow: 3px 3px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
  box-shadow: 3px 3px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
  margin: 20px 0 20px 0;
  overflow: scroll;
}
```

The `overflow: scroll` for class `.highlight` will have a scroll box. Because there are two nested items div and pre of the class hightlight there will be two scroll boxes.

## Update _sass/_highlights.scss to start with this

```css
pre.highlight {
  background-color: #efefef;
  padding: 7px 7px 7px 10px;
  border: 1px solid #ddd;
  -moz-box-shadow: 3px 3px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
  -webkit-box-shadow: 3px 3px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
  box-shadow: 3px 3px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
  margin: 20px 0 20px 0;
  overflow: scroll;
}
```

This is really and edit which adds `pre` in front of `.highlight`

## A remaining problem
The inline code styles are not properly styled.
`This text needs to be styled`. It should have a background shade.
It does not so far.

## Github Pages can take hours to update css files.

Updating of `styles.css` takes hours on github. So be patient. I waited overnight.
This leads many to say certain fixes do not work.
I check the css files send back to the browser to see if the changes have propagated.
This is one of the prices of a free blog.

## That is my contribution to fixing double boxed code on Jekyll Now based blogs

I read various pull requests on peoples suggestions on double box problem and the delay updating css on Github pages, thank you for your input. This is my explaination and solution to the double box problem.

## In open source and libre code YOU must be responsible for what you run.

You free code for your own use and must be responsible for how it runs.
You must debug and fix it, this is the execise of YOUR freedom.
You can also ignore my opinion as it is YOUR freedom to do such.